"Who's this Etienne de Sousa?
I should imagine this Etienne De Sousa was the black sheep of the family and that Hattie picked up odds and ends about him during her childhood without understanding them very well.
Etienne De Sousa.
I shouldn't pay any attention to what she tells you about this Etienne De Sousa.
Helmmouth, the yacht Espérance, and Etienne De Sousa.
He took a notebook from his pocket and wrote in small neat characters:


Etienne De Sousa declares that he wrote to his cousin three weeks before his arrival at Nasse House.
Granting, however, that Etienne De Sousa had lied, why did he lie?
Could it be possible that the Etienne De Sousa who had arrived that day at the fête was not the real Etienne De Sousa?
On the day Etienne De Sousa had come to Nasse House one person certainly had been killed, possibly two people.
"

"Yes?"

"What kind of a yacht did Etienne De Sousa have?"

"Maybe I can guess what you're thinking, M. Poirot, but I assure you there was nothing of that kind.
"Etienne De Sousa," said Poirot, "is a rich man.
"

"And he rang you up to ask what kind of a yacht Etienne De Sousa had?"

"When he rang up the first time, yes.
"Etienne De Sousa has, I suppose, left the country.
"What are these facts you talk about so glibly?"

"The fact that Etienne De Sousa came here in a lavishly appointed luxury yacht showing that his family is rich, the fact that old Merdell was Marlene Tucker's grandfather (which I did not know until today), the fact that Lady Stubbs was fond of wearing the coolie type of hat, the fact that Mrs Oliver, in spite of an unbridled and unreliable imagination, is, unrealised by herself, a very shrewd judge of character, the fact that Marlene Tucker had lipsticks and bottles of perfume hidden at the back of her bureau drawer, the fact that Miss Brewis maintains that it was Lady Stubbs who asked her to take a refreshment tray down to Marlene at the boathouse.

This statement was at complete variance with what he had been told about the arrival of Etienne De Sousa's letter at the breakfast table.


